                                                                                       Feedback




Glossary
     active edge
         The low-to-high or high-to-low transition of a clock signal that causes data to be
         latched into a flip-flop.
     aggressor net
        A net that causes undesirable crosstalk effects on another net (called the victim net)
        due to parasitic cross-capacitance between the two nets.
     annotation
        Information that is attached to an object, such as a delay value attached to a net; or
        the process of attaching information to an object.
     AOCV
       Advanced on-chip variation (AOCV) is a Synopsys technology that reduces
       unnecessary pessimism by using the location and logic depth of each path analyzed.
     arc
           A set of timing constraints associated with a particular path.
     ASIC
        Application-specific integrated circuit; a fabricated electronic device designed to
        perform a specific task.
     ASIC vendor
        A company that manufactures integrated circuits designed by others, using standard
        circuit elements with defined functional and timing characteristics.
     asynchronous
        The lack of a timing relationship between two different clocks or signals (transitions
        can occur at any time with respect to each other).
     attribute
         A string or value associated with an object that carries some information about that
         object. For example, the number_of_pins attribute attached to a cell indicates the
         number of pins in the cell. You can find out the values of attributes by using the
         get_attribute command.
     back-annotation
        The process of applying detailed parasitic data to a design, allowing a more accurate
        timing analysis of the final circuit. The data comes from an external tool after
        completion of layout.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                         1308
T-2022.03
                                                                                          Feedback
Glossary



     baseline image
        In DMSA analysis, the image that is produced by combining the netlist image and the
        common data files for a scenario.
     borrowing
        An analysis technique in which a portion of a path is allowed to borrow timing margin
        from the next stage of the design, when the next stage is a level-sensitive latch
        operating in transparent mode.
     capture
        The process of clocking data into a latch or flip-flop at the endpoint of a path, thus
        getting the data that was launched by an earlier clock edge at the startpoint of the
        path.
     cell
         A component within an integrated circuit with known functional and timing
         characteristics, which can be used as an element in building a larger circuit.
     cell delay
         The delay from the input to the output of a cell (logic gate) in a path.
     clock
        A periodic signal that latches data into sequential elements. You define a signal
        to be a clock and specify its timing characteristics by using the create_clock or
        create_generated_clock command.
     clock path
        A timing path that starts at a clock input port or a pin of an internal cell and ends at a
        clock input pin of a sequential element.
     clock gating
        The control of a clock signal by a combinational logic element such as a multiplexer or
        AND gate, to either shut down the clock at selected times or to modify the clock pulse
        characteristics.
     clock latency
        See latency.
     clock reconvergence pessimism
        An inaccuracy of static timing analysis that occurs when two different clock paths
        partially share a common physical path segment, and the analysis tool uses the
        minimum delay of the shared segment for one path and the maximum delay of
        the same segment for the other path. Correction of this inaccuracy is called clock
        reconvergence pessimism removal (CRPR).
     clock skew
        See skew.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                            1309
T-2022.03
                                                                                       Feedback
Glossary



     closing edge
        The edge of a clock signal that latches data into a level-sensitive latch, ending the
        transparent mode and desensitizing the data input.
     collection
         A set of objects taken from the loaded design. For example, the set mylist
         [get_clocks "CLK*"] command creates a collection of clocks and sets a variable
         called “mylist” to the collection. Then you can use commands that operate on the
         collection, such as remove_clock $mylist. You can also generate and operate on a
         collection within a single command, such as remove_clock [get_clocks "CLK*"].
     combinational feedback loop
        A combinational logic network in which a signal path makes a complete loop back to
        its starting point. PrimeTime must break a loop (stop tracing the signal) at some point
        within the loop.
     combinational logic
        A logic network that only contains elements that have no memory or internal state.
        Combinational logic can contain AND, OR, XOR, and inverter elements, but cannot
        contain flip-flops, latches, registers, or RAM.
     command focus
        In DMSA analysis, the current set of scenarios to which analysis commands are
        applied. The command focus can consist of all scenarios in the session or just a
        subset of those scenarios.
     common point
        In a path where clock reconvergence pessimism exists, the common point is the last
        cell output in the path segment shared between the launch and capture clock paths.
     conditional timing arc
        A timing arc whose delay values depend on some condition such as the logical state of
        an input.
     conservative
        An analysis algorithm or technique that favors pessimism (rather than optimism) to
        ensure detection of all violations.
     constraint
        A timing specification or requirement that applies to a path or a design. A timing
        constraint limits the allowed range of time that signals can arrive at a device input or be
        valid at a device output.
     context characterization
        The process of using the characterize_context command to capture the timing
        context of a subdesign in the chip-level timing environment. This process allows
        standalone timing analysis of the subdesign in PrimeTime or optimization of the
        subdesign in Design Compiler. The timing context of an instance includes clock



PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                           1310
T-2022.03
                                                                                          Feedback
Glossary



           information, input arrival times, output delay times, timing exceptions, design rules,
           propagated constants, wire load models, input drives, and capacitive loads.
     context independent
        Accurate in different contexts. Note that this term refers to the usability, not behavior,
        of a timing model. For example, a timing model created with the extract_model
        command is context independent, which means that the model can be used accurately
        in different contexts (its behavior changes according to the context in which it is used).
     CPU time
       The amount of time used by the central processing unit of the computer to accomplish
       a task, as reported by the tool. This is a measure of computation resources required
       for the task. CPU time is less than the actual elapsed time.
     critical path
         The path in a path group that has the largest violation (or the least timing slack) of all
         paths in that path group.
     critical region
         In HyperTrace accelerated PBA, the set of slack-critical (violating) pins in the design.
         The slack criticality threshold is typically zero, but it is configurable.
     crosstalk
        An undesirable effect on a net caused by parasitic capacitance between the net and
        physically adjacent nets. Signal transitions on the adjacent nets can cause noise bump
        or a change in the transition time on the affected net.
     current design
        The loaded design currently considered to be the top-level design in a design
        hierarchy. You can specify the current design with the current_design command.
     current image
        In DMSA analysis, the image that is automatically saved to disk when there are
        more scenarios than hosts, and the worker process must switch to work on another
        scenario.
     current instance
        The instance (hierarchical cell) in a design hierarchy on which instance-specific
        commands operate by default. You can set the current instance with the
        current_instance command, which works like the cd command in Linux.
     current session
        In DMSA analysis, the current set of scenarios selected for analysis.
     data check
        A timing check between two data signals, such as handshaking interface signals
        or recovery/removal checks between preset and clear pins. The two signals being
        checked are called the constrained and related signals. The related signal is the data
        signal treated as the clock in the timing relationship. For example, a setup data check



PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                           1311
T-2022.03
                                                                                          Feedback
Glossary



           verifies that the constrained signal is stable before the active edge of the related
           signal.
     data path
        A timing path that starts at a data launch point and ends at a data capture point. The
        term “path” usually means a data path, although there are other types of paths such as
        clock paths and async_default paths.
     database (.db) format
        A Synopsys file format used for storing designs, .lib logic libraries, clock information,
        back-annotated parasitic information, and timing models. You can read some or all of
        this information from a .db file into PrimeTime by using the read_db command. Tools
        such as Design Compiler and Formality also use .db files.
     Design Compiler
        A Synopsys tool that can synthesize a design defined by a hardware description
        language into an optimized, technology-dependent, gate-level design. Design Compiler
        supports a wide range of flat and hierarchical design styles and can optimize both
        combinational and sequential designs for speed, area, and power. Design Compiler
        and PrimeTime work well together, but they are independent tools that can be used
        separately.
     edge-sensitive latch
        A flip-flop; a register element that captures data on each active edge on its clock input.
        The active edge is a transition from low to high or high to low, depending on the device
        type.
     endpoint
        The place in a design where a timing path ends. This is where data gets captured by a
        clock edge or where the data must be available at a specific time. Every endpoint must
        be either a register data input pin or an output port.
     exception
        See timing exception.
     exclusive clocks
        Two clocks that are never active at the same time (for example, because they are
        multiplexed).
     extracted timing model
        A timing model created from a gate-level netlist by the extract_model command. This
        type of model represents the timing characteristics (arc values) of the block. However,
        it does not contain any functional information, so it cannot be synthesized.
     false path
         A path that exists in a design that should not be analyzed for timing, such as a path
         between two multiplexed blocks that are never enabled at the same time. For proper
         analysis by PrimeTime, you need to define false paths as timing exceptions with the




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                             1312
T-2022.03
                                                                                          Feedback
Glossary



           set_false_path command or remove the related objects from analysis with the
           set_disable_timing command.
     fanin
        The set ports and pins that affect a specified timing endpoint (called the sink). A
        pin is considered to be in the timing fanin of a sink if there is a timing path through
        combinational logic from the pin to that sink. Fanin tracing stops at the clock pins of
        registers (sequential cells).
     fanout
        In PrimeTime, the term fanout usually means timing fanout, also known a transitive
        fanout. Timing fanout is the set ports and pins at timing endpoints that are affected by
        a specified source port or pin. A pin is considered to be in the timing fanout of a source
        if there is a timing path through combinational logic from the source to that pin. Fanout
        tracing stops at the inputs to registers (sequential cells).
        Note that timing fanout is not the same as direct fanout. Direct fanout is the number of
        cell inputs connected to a cell output.
     flip-flop
         A memory element controlled by an edge-sensitive clock input. Typically, a flip-flop
         has an input D, and output Q, a clock input, and possibly asynchronous set and clear
         inputs. When the active edge occurs on the clock input, the value on the input D is
         latched and then held constant at the output Q. The active edge can be either rising or
         falling, depending on the type of flip-flop.
     gated clock
        A clock signal that can be modified by logic, such as a clock that can be turned off to
        save power.
     generated clock
        A clock signal that is generated internally by the integrated circuit itself; a clock that
        does not come directly from an external source. An example of a generated clock
        is a divide-by-2 clock generated from the system clock, having half the frequency of
        the system clock. You specify the characteristics of a generated clock by using the
        create_generated_clock command.
     glitch
         A noise bump that is large enough to cause a logic failure.
     graph-based refinement
        In HyperTrace accelerated PBA, the process of performing selective signal merging
        within the critical region to improve accuracy while maintaining the runtime and
        memory advantages of a graph-based representation.
     hold constraint
        A timing constraint that specifies how much time is necessary for data to be stable
        at the input of a device after the clock edge that clocks the data into the device. This
        constraint enforces a minimum delay on a timing path relative to a clock.



PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                            1313
T-2022.03
                                                                                         Feedback
Glossary



     HyperGrid
        A PrimeTime feature to analyze very large designs in a single run by parallelizing
        the analysis across multiple worker processes running on different hosts. The entire
        design can be explored and reported with the same commands used in a regular
        PrimeTime analysis.
     HyperScale
        A PrimeTime hierarchical analysis method that analyzes the block-level and top-level
        portions of the design using separate runs and accurately handles the timing interfaces
        across hierarchical boundaries.
     HyperTrace
        A PrimeTime technology that accelerates exhaustive path-based analysis (PBA). The
        critical region of the timing graph is identified. Then, graph-based refinement applies
        selective signal merging to improve accuracy within the critical region. This refined
        timing is then used to drive the exhaustive PBA search.
     I-V characteristics (steady-state)
         The current-voltage characteristics of a cell output; the current as a function of
         voltage while the output is held constant at logic 1 or logic 0. PrimeTime SI uses this
         information to calculate crosstalk noise effects.
     island
         See voltage area.
     inout pin
        A bidirectional pin of a cell; a pin that can operate as both an input and an output.
     input delay
        A constraint that specifies the minimum or maximum amount of delay from a clock
        edge to the arrival of a signal at a specified input port. PrimeTime uses this information
        to check for timing violations at the input port and in the transitive fanout from that input
        port.
     intellectual property
         Information owned by one company that is licensed for use by another company. For
         example, one company might offer a license to use a chip submodule design (such as
         a microprocessor core) in another company’s application-specific circuit. The owner of
         the submodule design can provide the layout information, electrical specifications, and
         a timing model to the other company, without revealing the submodule netlist.
     interface logic model (ILM)
         An obsolete type of timing model that has been superseded by HyperScale
         hierarchical analysis.
     latch
         A memory element controlled by level-sensitive gate input. The output of a latch
         follows the input if the gate signal is active. When the gate signal goes from active to
         inactive, the input value is latched and the output remains constant at that value. The


PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                           1314
T-2022.03
                                                                                          Feedback
Glossary



           inactive-to-active edge of the gate signal is called the opening edge. The active-to-
           inactive edge of the gate signal is called the closing edge.
     latency
         The amount of time that a clock signal takes to be propagated from the clock source to
         a specific point inside the design. The clock signal is “hidden” (latent) for this amount of
         time.
     launch
        The process of clocking data out of a latch or flip-flop at the startpoint of a path,
        releasing data that is captured by another clock edge at the endpoint of the path.
     layout
        The process of generating the geometric location, size, and form of components
        and connections for an integrated circuit. From layout information, an external tool
        can generate accurate information about the parasitic resistance and capacitance of
        the components and connections. You can then back-annotate the design with this
        information in PrimeTime for a more accurate timing analysis.
     leaf level
         The level of design hierarchy containing the lowest-level library cells, like the leaves of
         a tree.
     level-sensitive latch
        A register that allows data to pass through from input to output while its gate input is
        active, and holds its data output constant when the gate input is inactive.
     logic library
         A database containing information about the functional and timing characteristics of
         circuit elements used in a design, also called the .lib logic library when specified in
         Liberty syntax. Logic libraries are typically provided by an ASIC vendor.
     Liberty
        A standard format for specifying cell library information such as delays, timing
        constraints, and power. The SiliconSmart library characterization tool generates
        text files in Liberty (.lib) format. The Library Compiler tool reads in Liberty files and
        generates compiled cell library (.db) files.
     Library Compiler
        A Synopsys tool used to create library databases for PrimeTime, Design Compiler, and
        other tools. Library Compiler reads the description of an ASIC library from a text file
        in Liberty (.lib) format and compiles the description into a database in .db format for
        synthesis and analysis.
     LVF (Liberty Variation Format)
        A standard format in Liberty syntax for specifying cell variation parameters such as the
        mean and standard deviation (sigma) for cell delays.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                               1315
T-2022.03
                                                                                         Feedback
Glossary



     manager process
       In DMSA and HyperGrid distributed analysis, the PrimeTime process invoked by the
       user that orchestrates one or more worker processes.
     multicycle path
       A path that is designed to take more than one clock cycle for the data to propagate
       from the startpoint to the endpoint. For example, a multiplier circuit (a slow
       combinational logic element) might be designed to take four clock cycles to generate
       a valid result; the circuit is designed to capture the result after this amount of time has
       elapsed. For proper analysis, you need to define such a path as a timing exception
       with the set_multicycle_path command.
     native
        A command or process in PrimeTime that works entirely in PrimeTime itself and does
        not require an outside program.
     net arc
        A timing arc from a driver pin to a load pin connected to the same net, having a
        nonzero delay due to parasitic net capacitance.
     net delay
        The amount of delay from the output of a cell to the input of the next cell in a timing
        path. This delay is the result of parasitic capacitance of the interconnection between
        the two cells.
     network latency
        The amount of time a clock signal takes to propagate from the clock definition point to
        a register clock pin.
     nonlinear delay model (NLDM)
        A standard, table-based format for specifying cell delays in .lib logic libraries.
     noise
        A temporary deviation or change in the analog voltage of a steady-state net, such as a
        crosstalk-induced voltage bump at the output of a CMOS gate.
     noise bump
        An occurrence of noise that appears as hump shape (often modeled as a triangle)
        when plotted as voltage versus time.
     noise immunity curve
        A function that specifies the maximum size of a noise bump that can be allowed at
        the input of a cell without generating propagated noise at the output of the cell. The
        function is often approximated as a hyperbola.
     noise margin
        DC noise margin is the difference between the most extreme output voltage for a logic
        level (such as VOLmax) and the most extreme input threshold considered the same
        logic level (such as VILmax). AC noise margin is the maximum size of a noise bump, in



PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                         1316
T-2022.03
                                                                                            Feedback
Glossary



           volts, that can be allowed at the input of a cell without generating a logic failure at the
           output of the cell.
     noise slack
        The amount by which a logic failure is avoided when a noise bump occurs at the input
        of a cell, equal to the failure threshold voltage minus the bump height, multiplied by the
        bump width. The units are in library voltage units times library time units.
     no-change constraint
        The amount of time that a data signal must remain unchanged before, during, and after
        a pulse of a control signal (for example, an address signal that must be stable during
        a write pulse). The data signal must be stable for a specified setup time before the
        leading edge of the control pulse, during the control pulse, and for a specified hold time
        after the trailing edge of the control pulse.
     opening edge
        The edge of a clock signal that asserts a gate input of a level-sensitive latch. The latch
        is transparent from the opening edge to the closing edge of the clock signal.
     operating conditions
        The process, voltage, and temperature conditions under which a circuit operates,
        which affect the timing characteristics of the cells.
     optimistic
        An analysis algorithm or technique with a known accuracy limitation, when the
        inaccuracy might indicate that a circuit has more timing slack than the real circuit. As a
        result, a violation in the real circuit might not be detected.
     output delay
        A constraint that specifies the minimum or maximum amount of delay from an output
        port to the external sequential device that captures data from that output port. This
        constraint establishes the times at which signals must be available at the output port to
        meet the setup and hold requirements of the external sequential element.
     parasitic capacitance
        Capacitance of a net due to the physical proximity between the net interconnections
        and adjacent nets or the substrate; or due to charge storage effects of p-n junctions in
        the net.
     parasitic resistance
        Resistance of an interconnection or net due to the finite conductivity of the interconnect
        material.
     partition
        In HyperGrid distributed analysis, part of a large design that has been split into multiple
        pieces (partitions), for parallelized analysis across multiple machines.
     path
        A point-to-point sequence through a design that starts at a register clock pin or an
        input port, passes through any number of combinational logic elements, and ends at a


PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                              1317
T-2022.03
                                                                                         Feedback
Glossary



           register data input pin or an output port. Data launched at the path startpoint by a clock
           edge is propagated through the combinational logic to the path endpoint, where the
           data gets captured by another clock edge.
     path endpoint
        See endpoint.
     path group
        A group of related paths, grouped either implicitly by the create_clock command
        or explicitly by the group_path command. By default, paths whose endpoints are
        clocked by the same clock are assigned to the same path group. Path groups affect
        the reporting of violations in PrimeTime. They also affect the relative amount of effort
        used by Design Compiler to optimize different paths.
     path inspector
        A window in the PrimeTime GUI used to display detailed information about a timing
        path such as the path schematic, path element tables, timing waveforms, path delay
        profiles, and text-format reports.
     path startpoint
        See startpoint.
     pessimistic
        An analysis algorithm or technique with a known accuracy limitation, when the
        inaccuracy might indicate that a circuit has less timing slack than the real circuit. As a
        result, a violation might be reported that would not actually exist in the real circuit.
     pin
           An input or output of a cell instance used in a design. The timing constraints for pins
           are specified in the .lib logic library.
     port
        An input or output of a design. You specify timing constraints for ports with the
        set_input_delay and set_output_delay commands.
     postlayout
        After layout; the time at which detailed parasitic data becomes available for back-
        annotation on the design.
     procedure (Tcl)
        A user-defined command created by the proc command in PrimeTime. After you
        define a procedure, you can run it like a standard command. A procedure can take
        arguments and can use local and externally defined variables.
     propagated noise
        A noise bump on a net caused by noise on the input of the gate that is driving the net.
        For example, for an inverter whose input is zero and output is one, a positive bump on
        the input can result in a negative bump on the output.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                           1318
T-2022.03
                                                                                         Feedback
Glossary



     pt_shell
        The text-based, command-line form of PrimeTime where you can enter commands,
        run scripts, and view results in text form. By contrast, the GUI (graphical user interface)
        form of PrimeTime also provides pull-down menus, dialog boxes, buttons, and
        graphical presentation of analysis results.
     quick timing model
        A temporary timing model you create with PrimeTime commands for a block
        when there is no netlist and no other type of timing model available. You
        use create_qtm_model to create a new model, create_qtm_port and
        create_qtm_delay_arc to specify the model characteristics, and save_qtm_model to
        save the completed model.
     RC
           Resistor-capacitor, a simple parasitic model consisting of a single resistor and
           capacitor to represent net parasitics.
     reconvergence pessimism
        See clock reconvergence pessimism.
     recovery constraint
        The minimum amount of time required between an asynchronous control signal (such
        as the asynchronous clear input of a flip-flop) going inactive and a subsequent active
        clock edge. This is like a setup check for the active clock edge. If the active clock
        edge occurs too soon after the asynchronous input goes inactive, the register data is
        uncertain because the clocked input data might not be valid.
     register
        A leaf-level instance of a flip-flop (controlled by an edge-sensitive clock input) or latch
        (controlled by a level-sensitive gate input).
     related signal
         The data signal treated as a clock in a data-to-data timing check. The other signal
         being checked is called the constrained signal.
     removal constraint
        The minimum amount of time required between a clock edge that occurs while
        an asynchronous input is active and the subsequent removal of the asserted
        asynchronous control signal. This is like a hold check for the removal of the
        asynchronous control signal. If the asynchronous input signal goes inactive too soon
        after a clock edge, the register data is uncertain because the clocked input data might
        be valid and conflict with the asynchronous control signal.
     RSPF
       Reduced Standard Parasitic Format, a format used to store circuit parasitic information
       for back-annotation. This format is defined by Cadence Design Systems, Inc.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                           1319
T-2022.03
                                                                                        Feedback
Glossary



     scenario
        In DMSA analysis, a specific combination of operating conditions and operating modes
        under which to analyze a design.
     script
        A text file containing a sequence of pt_shell commands, which can be executed with
        the source command.
     SDF
       Standard Delay Format, a standard file format used to store circuit information
       for back-annotation, including delay information (such as pin-to-pin cell delays
       and net delays) and timing checks (such as setup, hold, recovery, and removal
       times). PrimeTime can read and write SDF files with the read_sdf and write_sdf
       commands.
     sensitize
        To find or apply an input vector that causes a particular path to be logically active and
        to propagate data.
     sequential logic
        A logic network that contains elements that have memory or internal state, such as flip-
        flops, latches, registers, or RAM.
     session
        In a general context, refers to the currently running analysis session in the PrimeTime
        tool. Specifically, it can also refer to the data directory created and read by the
        save_session and restore_session commands, respectively.
     setup constraint
        A timing constraint that specifies how much time is necessary for data to be available
        at the input of a device before the clock edge that clocks the data into the device. This
        constraint enforces a maximum delay on a timing path relative to a clock.
     signal integrity
        The immunity of a signal or net against crosstalk effects; the characteristic of a net that
        is not affected by transitions or noise on physically adjacent nets.
     signal pin
        A pin that is not a PG pin, such as a clock, data, or reset pin.
     skew
        The amount of shift or variation away from the nominal, expected time that a clock
        transition occurs; or the difference in the amount of shift between two different points in
        a clock network.
     slack
        The amount of time by which a violation is avoided. For example, if a signal must reach
        a cell input at no later than 8 ns and is determined to arrive at 5 ns, the slack is 3 ns.
        A slack of 0 means that the timing constraint is just barely satisfied. A negative slack
        indicates a timing violation.


PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                         1320
T-2022.03
                                                                                      Feedback
Glossary



     slew
        The amount of time it takes for a signal to change from low to high or from high to low;
        also known as transition time.
     source latency
        The amount of time a clock signal takes to propagate from its ideal waveform origin
        point to the clock definition point.
     SPEF
       Standard Parasitic Exchange Format, a format used to store circuit parasitic
       information for back-annotation. This format is defined by Open Verilog International
       (OVI).
     SPICE
        Simulation program with integrated circuit emphasis, a time-based simulation tool that
        analyzes circuit operation at the level of transistors, capacitors, and resistors. Many
        different forms of this simulator are available from different sources.
     startpoint
        The place in a design where a timing path starts. This is where data gets launched by
        a clock edge or where the data is expected to be available at a specific time. Every
        startpoint must be either a register clock pin or an input port.
     static timing analysis
         An efficient analysis that determines whether a circuit violates any timing requirements
         by considering path delays and timing constraints. Compared with gate-level
         simulation, static timing analysis is faster and more thorough, and does not require test
         vectors. However, it is not a replacement for simulation because it does not check the
         functionality of the circuit.
     static noise analysis
         An analysis performed by PrimeTime SI that determines worst-case noise effects so
         that those effects can be minimized or eliminated. This technique considers the cross-
         coupling capacitance between physically adjacent aggressor and victim nets and the
         steady-state (one or zero) load characteristics of the victim net.
     synchronous
        A timing relationship between two clocks or signals in which specific transitions occur
        at the same time or have a phase difference that stays fixed over time.
     task
        In DMSA and HyperGrid distributed analysis, a self-contained piece of work defined by
        the manager process for a worker process to execute.
     Tcl
           Tool command language, a standard command scripting language on which the
           pt_shell interface is based.
     Tcl procedure
         See procedure (Tcl).


PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                        1321
T-2022.03
                                                                                         Feedback
Glossary



     threaded multicore analysis
         A flow that enables you to use multiple cores to improve performance by threading the
         timing update and optimizing handling in other major flow areas.
     three-state
         An output of a device (such as a bus driver) that can be in any of three logical states:
         low (0), high (1), or the high-impedance (Z) state.
     time borrowing
        See borrowing.
     timing arc
        See arc.
     timing exception
        An exception to the default (single-cycle) timing behavior assumed by PrimeTime. For
        PrimeTime to correctly analyze a circuit, you must specify each path that does not
        conform to the default behavior. Examples of timing exceptions include false paths,
        multicycle paths, and paths that require a specific minimum or maximum delay time
        different from the default calculated time.
     timing fanin and fanout
        See fanin and fanout.
     timing model
        A circuit model that contains the timing characteristics of the block, but not necessarily
        any functional information. These models are often used in hierarchical timing analysis,
        when analyzing a very large chip design would be too time-consuming if done as a
        single, flat design.
     transition time
         The amount of time it takes for a signal to change from low to high or from high to low.
     transitive fanin and fanout
         See fanin and fanout.
     transparent
         The state of a level-sensitive latch while the gate input is asserted. During this time,
         signals pass through from input to output and the device operates just like a buffer.
     true path
         A path that is logically possible to operate; a path that can be sensitized and can
         propagate data.
     uncertainty (clock uncertainty)
        The amount of variation away from the nominal, ideal-clock times at which clock edges
        occur.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                           1322
T-2022.03
                                                                                      Feedback
Glossary



     vector
        A specific set of values applied to the inputs of a device for testing or analysis
        purposes, or the resulting set of values at the outputs of a device; or a sequence of
        such values used for sensitizing a path in the design for analysis purposes.
     victim net
         A net that has undesirable crosstalk effects due to parasitic cross-capacitance
         between it and another net (called the aggressor net).
     voltage area
         A physical portion of a chip that uses a different power supply voltage from other
         portions of the chip.
     wire load model
        A net resistance and capacitance model used for timing analysis before layout, in the
        absence of back-annotated delay values or parasitic information. PrimeTime estimates
        the wire load based on the fanout of each net and library-specified parameters.
     worker process
        In DMSA and HyperGrid distributed analysis, one of a set of processes that performs
        distributed analysis work. The worker processes are controlled by the manager
        processes.




PrimeTime® User Guide                                                                         1323
T-2022.03
