                                                                                     Feedback




4
IC Validator Dashboard

     This chapter describes the IC Validator Dashboard capabilities.

     The IC Validator Dashboard is described in the following sections:
      • Introduction
      • Getting IC Validator Dashboard Email Updates From IC Validator
      • Starting IC Validator Dashboard Standalone
      • The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Introduction
     IC Validator Dashboard provides an easy way for you to see how a run is progressing,
     how many rules exist and how many have completed, how many violations have been
     reported, and how IC Validator is using the resources it has been allocated.
     As chips near completion, physical verification runs are in the critical path for tapeout,
     and it becomes increasingly important to ensure they complete on time. IC Validator
     Dashboard can be used effectively together with the IC Validator -host_elastic,
     -host_add, and -host_remove command-line options to help you optimize your physical
     verification runs and hardware resources.


Getting IC Validator Dashboard Email Updates From IC Validator
     IC Validator Dashboard can send you updates by email. IC Validator sends them
     automatically based on the percentage of completed updates written to the icv.log file. You
     can enable these updates by specifying -email dashboard on the IC Validator command
     line when you start the run. For example:
     icv ... -email dashboard ... runset.rs

     The emails contain the three pages of content, in which IC Validator Dashboard shows an
     MRI snapshot colored by memory usage, and a heat map of violation density.



IC Validator User Guide                                                                      110
X-2025.06
                                                                                            Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
Starting IC Validator Dashboard Standalone


Figure 7       IC Validator Dashboard Email Contents




Starting IC Validator Dashboard Standalone
     You can start the IC Validator Dashboard using the following command:
     icv_dashboard [-email ["user1,user2,..."]] [-V] [-h]
      [<run_details_path>|<dp_log_file>]

     If you do not provide any arguments, Dashboard looks for a distributed processing log file
     in the ./run_details directory and opens the graphical user interface (GUI).
     The command-line options are described in Table 23.
Table 23       IC Validator Dashboard Command-Line Options

      Option                                 Description

      -email ["user1,user2,…"]               Sends a single email update to the user and exits.

      -V                                     Prints the product version and exits. Other command-line
                                             options are ignored.

      -h                                     Prints program options and exits. Other command-line options
                                             are ignored.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                            111
X-2025.06
                                                                                             Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
Initial Directory Setting


Table 23       IC Validator Dashboard Command-Line Options (Continued)

      Option                                Description

      run_details_path|dp_log_file          Displays the GUI using either the specified run details directory
                                            or the DP log file. The default is ./run_details/. When the run
                                            details directory is specified, the distributed processing log file
                                            in that directory is used. If more than one distributed processing
                                            log file exists in that directory, the log file to use must be
                                            specified explicitly.


     Note:
           To start IC Validator Dashboard in this way, ensure that your PATH variable
           contains $ICV_HOME_DIR/bin, and that either LM_LICENSE_FILE or
           SNPSLMD_LICENSE_FILE environment variables point to a valid Synopsys
           license server with an IC Validator license.


Initial Directory Setting
     The IC Validator Dashboard automatically creates an initial directory to store intermediate
     files. You can specify a path for the initial directory by setting the environment variable,
     DASHBOARD_TMP. If this path is set and valid, then the IC Validator Dashboard creates the
     initial directory in this path, otherwise the current directory is the next choice, followed by
     your home directory. If the IC Validator Dashboard fails to create the initial directory, an
     error is shown.


The IC Validator Graphical User Interface
     When you start the GUI is started interactively using the command-line options described
     in the previous section, it continuously monitors the IC Validator run it found or was pointed
     to. The GUI opens displaying the Summary page which, after it has loaded the information
     from the run, displays the contents in Figure 8.


     IC Validator Dashboard Summary Page
     The Summary page shows five panels, which provide information on the status,
     CPU usage, memory usage, run progress, and rule progress. You can see additional
     information about the rule progress or status “lights” by hovering the pointer over them
     until the tooltip appears.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                               112
X-2025.06
                                                     Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Figure 8       IC Validator Dashboard Summary Page




IC Validator User Guide                                    113
X-2025.06
                                                                                       Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Figure 9        IC Validator Dashbord Status Panel




      IC Validator Dashboard Status
      There are five IC Validator Dashboard status values:
      • Waiting
           This is shown when IC Validator Dashboard GUI has started and is waiting for the IC
           Validator run to start and the distributed processing log file to appear.
      • Running
           Shown while the IC Validator run is running and IC Validator Dashboard is waiting for
           an update.
      • Completed
           Shown when the IC Validator run has completed successfully.
      • Stopped
           Shown when the IC Validator run has ended with an error



IC Validator User Guide                                                                        114
X-2025.06
                                                                                              Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


      • Unknown
         Shown when IC Validator Dashboard has read an incomplete distributed processing
         log file, but cannot tell if the job is still running. This can occur if a partial distributed
         processing log file has been loaded when IC Validator is no longer running.

      IC Validator Run Status Indicators
      In general, these status indicators are green. When IC Validator is short on disk space
      or memory, the respective indicator turns red. The “Other” status indicator turns red if a
      command has crashed, a host has been dropped, or if a significant portion of the total
      runtime is consumed by deferred commands. Hover the pointer over the indicator to
      display the reason for the status.

      IC Validator Run Information
      This section of the status panel displays the primary inputs to IC Validator.

      CPU Usage Panel
      The CPU usage panel shows the total CPUs in use across all hosts for the IC Validator
      run. When you run IC Validator in elastic mode, some CPUs might be released while the
      job is running. In that case, it is possible for the peak usage to exceed the allocated CPUs.

Figure 10      IC Validator Dashboard CPU Usage Panel




      Memory Usage Panel
      The Memory Usage panel shows the memory usage of the host using the most memory.
      When more than one host is allocated to the IC Validator run, this might change
      throughout the course of the run.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                                   115
X-2025.06
                                                                                     Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Figure 11      IC Validator Dashboard Memory Usage Panel




      Run Progress Panel
      The Run Progress panel shows the length of time since the start of the run (elapsed time)
      and the percentage of operations that IC Validator has completed. The progress bar is a
      graphical representation of the percent complete.

Figure 12      IC Validator Dashboard Run Progress Panel




      Rule Progress Panel
      The Rule Progress panel shows how many rules have been executed and how many
      errors have been created. As shown in Figure 8, when you hover the pointer over the
      progress bar, a tooltip displays the precise values.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                     116
X-2025.06
                                                                                   Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Figure 13      IC Validator Dashboard Rule Progress Panel




      When you run IC Validator in Explorer mode, the summary page shows the most
      recent Explorer Tier messages in the Rule Progress panel. You can see more detailed
      information by hovering over the message to display the Tooltip.


      IC Validator Dashboard CPU History Page
      The CPU page, as shown in Figure 14 shows the history of the total CPU usage color-
      coded by host. The upper panel shows a graph over time of the total number of CPUs
      allocated and those being used by each host. The lower panel serves as a legend for
      the graph and shows a current snapshot of the status for each host. When you hover the
      pointer over different elements, tooltips appear with additional information.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                     117
X-2025.06
                                                         Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Figure 14      IC Validator Dashboard CPU History Page




Figure 15      CPU History Page When Job Completes




IC Validator User Guide                                        118
X-2025.06
                                                                                      Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface



      IC Validator Memory History Page
      The Memory page, as shown in Figure 16 shows the history of the memory usage by host.
      The upper panel shows the memory usage by host over time. The lower panel shows a
      current snapshot of the memory usage for each host. The solid bar shows the current
      memory usage, the colored outline shows the peak memory usage, and the black outline
      shows the total physical memory of the host. If you specified a host memory limit using the
      IC Validator -host_memory command-line option, the portion of the black outline above
      that limit is shaded gray. When you hover the pointer over different elements, tooltips
      appear with additional information.

Figure 16      The IC Validator Dashboard Memory History Page




      IC Validator Dashboard Options
      Click the mail icon on the menu bar to open the IC Validator Dashboard – Options dialog
      box. Here, you can select up to three different email notification options. Time-based
      emails are sent every 10 minutes while the GUI is open. Event-based emails are sent
      each time a new progress line is printed. If IC Validator was started with the -email
      dashboard command-line option, this box is checked. You can disable event-based
      emails by unchecking that option or a notification email is sent when the ongoing ICV job
      completes or fails.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                       119
X-2025.06
                                                                                   Feedback
Chapter 4: IC Validator Dashboard
The IC Validator Graphical User Interface


Figure 17      IC Validator Dashboard - Options Dialog Box




      Dashboard emails contain snapshots of the information displayed on each tab of the GUI.




IC Validator User Guide                                                                   120
X-2025.06
