CHAPTER 1 — Introduction                                                      RedHawk User Manual    | 1
Full-chip Static and Dynamic Power Integrity


                                                                             Chapter 1
                                                                           Introduction
Full-chip Static and Dynamic Power Integrity

              ANSYS RedHawk™ power integrity solution is a full-chip cell-based power/ground design
              and verification product with integrated SPICE, addressing static and dynamic power
              integrity from early in the design flow through verification and sign-off. Static IR drop,
              which determines the IR-drop based on the average value of the power distribution, is
              merely the DC component of the solution. The more significant components are the AC
              effects involving temporal relationships between switching events (of cells, clocks,
              memories, IP, and I/O buffers) and the impact that capacitance and inductance have on
              full-chip power integrity.
              The RedHawk product suite consists of two core applications, RedHawk-S (static) and
              RedHawk-EV (static and dynamic). RedHawk-S supports full-chip static power, IR drop,
              and EM (electro-migration) analysis. RedHawk-EV supports full-chip Vectorless
              Dynamic™ power and voltage analysis, including the effects of on-chip inductance,
              package RLC models, and decoupling capacitance analysis and optimization. In addition,
              RedHawk support accurate analysis of advanced low power designs using techniques
              such as MTCMOS (power gating), clock gating, multiple Vdd/Vss, and substrate biasing.
              The name RedHawk is used interchangeably to refer to either RedHawk-S or RedHawk-
              EV, depending on the product bundle you have licensed.
              The comprehensive physical power integrity solution offered by RedHawk encompasses
              several breakthrough technologies, including transistor-level analysis accuracy in a cell-
              based power solution. One of the underlying technologies is RedHawk's Vectorless
              Dynamic statistical analysis engine, which computes realistic worst-case switching
              scenarios on a full chip without requiring functional vectors. The Vectorless Dynamic
              technique, driven by the static timing analysis (STA) timing window and current
              waveforms in SPICE-characterized Apache Power Libraries (APL), yield accurate voltage
              waveforms for each instance on a power-grid. Severe peak voltage drop areas are
              identified as hotspot regions, which can be fixed using new decap placement, grid
              resizing, supplementary power routing, and/or swapping key cell instances at power
              hotspots. Upon identifying these hotspots in the power networks, RedHawk helps
              determine how to modify the grid or the decap placement, or swap a cell instance at
              needed locations, to reduce the voltage drop.
              RedHawk is fully interoperable with industry standard file formats for technology, design,
              and library descriptions. To support the requirements of complex SoC designs, RedHawk
              accepts hybrid input formats such as LEF/DEF for standard cell and GDSII for memories,
              flip-chip bumps, I/Os, cover macros, and IP blocks. In addition, RedHawk supports
              SPICE-characterized waveform data in Apache Power Libraries to augment the static
              data in Synopsys .lib, thereby ensuring “true” dynamic accuracy.
              While accuracy is one of the primary goals of RedHawk’s physical power flow, an equally
              important mission is to provide designers with full-chip capacity and an easy-to-use
              product. RedHawk enables full-chip RLC power-ground extraction, transient simulation,
              electro-migration analysis, static and dynamic power and voltage drop analysis, voltage
              drop impact on key timing parameters such as clock jitter and delay, and power integrity
              design fixing and optimization in a single product. This enables designers to quickly
              examine the power and timing impacts on an SoC caused by physical implementation
              decisions throughout the design flow and insure accurate power performance and sign-
              off.



ANSYS, Inc.
CHAPTER 1 — Introduction                                                      RedHawk User Manual     | 2
Using RedHawk in the Design Flow

Using RedHawk in the Design Flow

              RedHawk is fully compatible with industry standard formats and easily drops into existing
              ASIC vendor and COT flows. RedHawk’s physical power methodology, illustrated in
              Figure 1-1, is easily integrated into all three primary stages of chip design: Design
              Planning, Design Development, and Design Verification. The use of RedHawk in these
              design phases is described in the following sections.
              RedHawk supports two methodologies for dynamic analysis, depending on where you are
              in the design flow. The first method is based on .lib file data, which provides early
              feedback on dynamic hotspots. The second method is Apache Power Library (APL)
              based dynamic analysis, which provides transistor-level accuracy during verification,
              based on cell current waveforms in the characterized APL.

              Design Planning

              RedHawk enables early design analysis of static IR drop, and dynamic hotspot estimation
              using .lib-based analysis. At this stage, RedHawk considers wire load models, such as
              net-to-gate capacitance ratios, to calculate the power distribution. Typically, graphic
              presentation of IR drop and EM maps can reveal weaknesses of the power/ground mesh
              structures or the shortage of power/ground pads. Power-grid distribution issues can be
              easily remedied by wire-sizing or adding more straps or vias. At this point, switching to a
              flip-chip package may alleviate the static IR power distribution problems. In addition, by
              black-box consideration of memories and other content which is not yet available,
              dynamic hotspots due to simultaneous switching can be flagged in individual blocks or on
              the entire design.

              Design Development

              In the design development stage, after detailed cell placement, the design is represented
              by hybrid of input formats, such as LEF/DEF for logic core and GDSII for memories and
              flip-chip power bumps. If the SPEF or DSPF of the signal nets is unavailable, RedHawk
              uses Steiner tree wire estimates to compute power distribution. The use of slew
              information from the static timing analyzer (STA) further increases the accuracy of power
              analysis. Potential EM problems can be identified. Once the full-chip dynamic hotspot
              regions are identified, a rapid “what-if” analysis can be performed to assess the impact of
              package model inductance and intentional decap. Early analysis of the decaps ensure
              that proper area and location are allocated during placement, rather than after routing.
              Decap must be placed as close as possible to the victim to ensure proper protection from
              current spikes.




ANSYS, Inc.
CHAPTER 1 — Introduction                                                        RedHawk User Manual     | 3
Using RedHawk in the Design Flow




                             Design Flow                        Design Planning

                       Initial Placement and              • Evaluate static IR distribution and EM
                                                            problems
                        Power Grid Design
                                                          • Estimate dynamic hotspots
                                                          • Evaluate and fix power grid design and
                                                            current demand imbalances
                             REDHAWK                      • Power analysis using *.libs

                                                                Design Development

                       Detailed Placement                 • Perform LIB-based analysis of dynamic
                        and Optimization                    hotspots and repair
                                                          • Explore and modify decoupling
                                                            capacitance
                                                          • Assess and fix package and clock power
                             REDHAWK                        problems

                                                                Design Verification
                       Detailed Routing,
                        Extraction, LVS/DRC               • Perform precise APL-based analysis of
                                                            dynamic hotspots and repair
                                                          • Optimize decap usage and protection
                                                          • Analyze dynamic voltage and its impact
                             REDHAWK                        on timing
                                                          • Evaluate and fix remaining power-related
                                                            design issues
                                                          • Verify design with Spice sign-off accuracy

              Figure 1-1       Using RedHawk throughout the design process



              Design Verification

              During the design verification stage, RedHawk uses the detailed resistive and capacitive
              loading of the signal nets from the extracted DSPF or SPEF file, as well as the final slew
              and delay information from the STA. The critical information that is required at the
              verification stage is the transient current waveform data for each cell library instance. The
              current waveforms are characterized in the Apache Power Libraries (APL), enabling
              transistor-level accuracy during cell-level verification. APL should be used during the final
              verification to fully benefit from RedHawk’s transistor-level accuracy. This provides the
              assurance that the decap is optimally placed to protect dynamic hotspots. A final
              verification of dynamic voltage-induced delays to clock skew and timing is performed
              before tapeout.




ANSYS, Inc.
CHAPTER 1 — Introduction                                                     RedHawk User Manual    | 4
Summary

Summary

              Due to large power densities, smaller voltage supplies, and higher frequencies, full-chip
              dynamic and static power integrity is one of the key challenges for designs in 65nm
              technology processes and beyond. Dynamic power and peak voltage drop is difficult to
              analyze and correct, being a transient phenomena, and its impact on chip timing and yield
              is a growing concern.
              Major ASIC and IC semiconductor houses and COT companies will benefit by using
              ANSYS RedHawk tools to design and verify the dynamic power integrity of very large
              designs. At the 65nm process node and lower, dynamic power integrity is a design sign-
              off requirement.
              A comprehensive cell-based methodology for full-chip power integrity analysis must
              address:
               • Vectorless Dynamic voltage drop analysis and verification, including impacts on timing
                 and clock trees
               • Analysis and optimization of decoupling capacitance
               • Waveform-based dynamic power libraries for cells and macros
               • Power grid weakness analysis, optimization and fixing
               • On-chip and off-chip inductive noise evaluation
               • Multiple Vdd and Vss per instance
              RedHawk’s physical power solution delivers all of these capabilities in a dramatically
              faster, high-capacity, and easy-to-use design environment. Design teams can confidently
              deploy RedHawk's full-chip physical power methodology throughout their design flows,
              taping out on-schedule, and with power integrity insured to silicon.




ANSYS, Inc.
