CHAPTER 2 — RedHawk Flow                                                        RedHawk User Manual      | 5
Introduction


                                                                         Chapter 2
                                                                     RedHawk Flow
Introduction

              RedHawk performs several types of power analysis on a circuit:
               • static (IR) voltage drop with average cycle currents
               • dynamic voltage drop with worst-case switching currents
               • electromigration analysis
               • critical path and clock tree impacts
              Each type of analysis can be run in different ways, depending on the input data available
              and the desired speed of analysis and accuracy of results. An overview of the data flow
              for static IR and dynamic voltage drop analyses is presented in the following sections.

Static Voltage Drop Analysis Flow

              Figure 2-1 shows the design flow for running RedHawk-S, the static IR drop solution.
              The following are the key steps in the static voltage drop analysis flow.
                1.   Prepare the design data and input files (see Chapter 3).
                  - Prepare the RedHawk technology file data on the IC process (tutorial.tech).
                  - Prepare the pad cell name, pad instance name, or pad location file. (tutorial.pcell,
                    tutorial.pad, and/or tutorial.ploc file).
                  - Generate the STA output file for slews, timing windows, and clock instances
                    (tutorial.sta). See Chapter 19, "Timing File Creation Using Apache Timing Engine
                    (ATE)".
                  - Prepare the Global System Requirements (GSR) file (including references to .tech
                    file, pad files, STA file, LEF files, DEF files, and LIB files) for static IR/EM and/or
                    dynamic voltage drop analysis (tutorial.gsr).
                  - Import design data using GSR file (tutorial.gsr).
                2.   Perform power calculation from .lib cell data, or import power data if previously
                     calculated (see Chapter 4).
                3.   Extract power grid (R network).
                4.   Perform static IR/EM analysis (see Chapter 4).
                5.   Generate and review maps and text reports of IR/EM results (see Chapter 6).
                6.   Perform “what-if” analysis and grid modification and optimization to fix areas of
                     critical static IR drop (see Chapter 7).




ANSYS, Inc.
CHAPTER 2 — RedHawk Flow                                                                    RedHawk User Manual         | 6
Dynamic Voltage Drop Analysis Flow




                                                    Inputs                                           Outputs
                                             Physical Library




              Technology-specific
                                             LEF / LIB files
              Library and
                                               Technology               RedHawk-S

                                           Apache Tech file
                                                                                                Static pwr / volt / EM
                                                                        Power Calculation
                                                                                                  Contour Maps
                                             Physical Design
                                                                        Power Grid R
                                            DEF / GDS files               Extraction

                                        Design & Analysis Spec                                 Static pwr / volt / EM
                    Design-specific




                                                                        Static IR/EM             Text Reports
                                               GSR file                   Analysis

                                             Package Specs

                                          .pcell / .ploc / .pad files
                                                                                                Warnings/ Violations
                                           Parasitic Loading *

                                             SPEF / DSPF files


                                            Instance Slews *

                                                STA file


                                      * Optional for more accuracy


              Figure 2-1                          RedHawk-S static IR power analysis flow

              RedHawk-S outputs include:
                 • IR voltage drop contour maps
                 • Electro-migration (EM) analysis
                 • Power density and average current maps
                 • Text report files of detailed static power, voltage, and current data
                 • Warnings and violations reports



Dynamic Voltage Drop Analysis Flow

              Figure 2-2 shows the design flow for running RedHawk-EV, the dynamic voltage drop
              solution.




ANSYS, Inc.
CHAPTER 2 — RedHawk Flow                                                                           RedHawk User Manual        | 7
Dynamic Voltage Drop Analysis Flow




                                                                           Apache Power Library
                                                      Inputs                                                 Outputs
                                                                                Current Profiles
                                                                          Instance Power Resistance
                                              Physical Library                  Intrinsic Decap


              Technology-specific              LEF / LIB files

                                                                              RedHawk-EV
              Library and



                                                 Technology

                                            Apache Tech file
                                                                            Power Calculation
                                                                                                          Dynamic Pwr / Volt
                                                                                                          Contour Maps
                                              Physical Design               Power Grid RLC
                                                                             Extraction
                                             DEF / GDS files

                                          Design & Analysis Spec            Dynamic Voltage
                                                                                                         Dynamic Pwr / Volt
                                                                             Hotspot Analysis
                                                                                                         Text Reports
                                                                             and Fixing
                    Design-specific




                                                GSR file

                                               Package Specs                Vectorless
                                                                             Dynamic Sim
                                            .pcell / .ploc / .pad files
                                                                                                        Decap Maps
                                            Package Parasitics              Impact on Timing


                                             Parasitic Loading

                                              SPEF / DSPF files
                                                                                                        Warnings/ Violations

                                           Instance Slew/Timing

                                                  STA file




              Figure 2-2                            RedHawk-EV dynamic power analysis flow

              The following are the key steps in the dynamic analysis flow.
                      1.                Prepare the design data and input files (see Chapter 3).
                                      Note: If RedHawk static IR drop analysis has been run, this step does not need to be
                                      repeated, except to set specific dynamic run parameters in the GSR file.
                                  - Prepare the RedHawk technology file data on the IC process (tutorial.tech).
                                  - Prepare the pad cell name, pad instance name, or pad location file. (tutorial.pcell,
                                    tutorial.pad, and/or tutorial.ploc file).
                                  - Generate the STA output file for slews, timing windows, and clock instances. See
                                    Chapter 19, "Timing File Creation Using Apache Timing Engine (ATE)".
                                  - Prepare the Global System Requirements (GSR) file (including references to .tech
                                    file, pad files, STA file, LEF files, DEF files, and LIB files) for dynamic voltage drop


ANSYS, Inc.
CHAPTER 2 — RedHawk Flow                                                          RedHawk User Manual     | 8
Dynamic Voltage Drop Analysis Flow

                     analysis (tutorial.gsr) (see file definitions in Appendix C, "File Definitions").
                 - Import design data using GSR file (tutorial.gsr).
                2.   Prepare additional inputs required to run RedHawk-EV, in addition to those needed
                     for static analysis (see Chapter 3, "User Interface and Data Preparation"):
                 - Timing windows and slews from STA (recommended)
                 - Extracted parasitics from SPEF or DSPF (recommended)
                 - Pad, wirebond/bump, and package R, L, C, K information
                 - Technology data - conductor thicknesses, dielectric thicknesses and dielectric
                   constants (seesection "Apache Technology File (*.tech)", page C-548.
                 - SPICE model cards and library subcircuits. This is required to characterize the
                   current waveforms in the Apache Power Libraries
                 - SPICE subcircuits for all memories, I/Os, and IP blocks (optional)
                3.   Calculate detailed power distribution from .lib cell data, or import power data if
                     previously calculated (see Chapter 4).
                4.   Extract power grid (RLC network).
                5.   Run APL (Apache Power Library) characterization, to obtain current profiles under
                     typical corner conditions, Effective Series Resistance (ESR) for the power circuit
                     and as well as decoupling capacitance and leakage current (see Chapter 9,
                     "Characterization Using Apache Power Library").
                6.   Perform dynamic voltage drop and peak current analysis (see Chapter 5, "Dynamic
                     Voltage Drop Analysis").
                7.   Generate and review maps and text reports of dynamic analysis results (see
                     Chapter 6, "Reports").
                8.   Perform “what-if” analysis and optimize decap placement, make grid modifications
                     and perform instance swapping to fix “hotspots” -- areas of highest dynamic
                     voltage drop (see Chapter 7, "Fixing and Optimizing Grid and Power
                     Performance") .


              RedHawk-EV outputs include:
               • Dynamic voltage drop color maps and power density color maps (see Chapter 5,
                 "Dynamic Voltage Drop Analysis")
               • Capacitance maps, including decap effects (see Chapter 5, "Dynamic Voltage Drop
                 Analysis")
               • Report files (see Chapter 6, "Reports")
               • ECO script to place and route environment (see Chapter 7, "Fixing and Optimizing
                 Grid and Power Performance")




ANSYS, Inc.
